docs: adjust docs for quicker start (#62)
ENTERPILOT/GOModel: README.md

# GOModel

> A high-performance AI gateway written in Go. Unified OpenAI-compatible API for multiple LLM providers.

Reviewer: Please use the term “AI model providers”. Currently, most LLMs are actually LXM. Also, the project’s functionality is more than just a unified OpenAI-compatible API. It’s closer to an AI hub. However, since “AI hub” isn’t a widely used term, let’s use “AI gateway” for now.

What do you say about this?
```suggestion
A high-performance AI gateway written in Go, providing a unified OpenAI-compatible API for multiple AI model providers, full-observability and more.
```

Author: Sounds better 👍

## Quick Start

**Step 1:** Start GOModel

```bash
docker run --rm -p 8080:8080 \

>   -e GEMINI_API_KEY="your-gemini-key" \

Reviewer: I suggest to use OPENAI api key in this example. It's still the most popular AI model provider.

  enterpilot/gomodel
```

Pass only the provider credentials or base URL you need (at least one required):

```bash
docker run --rm -p 8080:8080 \
  -e OPENAI_API_KEY="your-openai-key" \
  -e ANTHROPIC_API_KEY="your-anthropic-key" \
  -e GEMINI_API_KEY="your-gemini-key" \
  -e GROQ_API_KEY="your-groq-key" \
  -e XAI_API_KEY="your-xai-key" \
  -e OLLAMA_BASE_URL="http://host.docker.internal:11434/v1" \
  enterpilot/gomodel
```

Avoid passing secrets via `-e` on the command line—they can leak via shell history and process lists. For production, use `docker run --env-file .env` to load API keys from a file instead.

**Step 2:** Make your first API call

```bash
curl http://localhost:8080/v1/chat/completions \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{

>     "model": "gemini-2.5-flash",

Reviewer: I would change it to `gpt-5-chat-latest` model together with the key from GEMINI to OPENAI.

| `/v1/chat/completions` | POST | Chat completions (streaming supported) |
| `/v1/responses` | POST | OpenAI Responses API |
| `/v1/models` | GET | List available models |
| `/health` | GET | Health check |
| `/metrics` | GET | Prometheus metrics (when enabled) |

---

## Configuration

GOModel is configured through environment variables. See [`.env.template`](.env.template) for all options.

Key settings:

| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `PORT` | `8080` | Server port |
| `GOMODEL_MASTER_KEY` | (none) | API key for authentication |
| `CACHE_TYPE` | `local` | Cache backend (`local` or `redis`) |
| `STORAGE_TYPE` | `sqlite` | Storage backend (`sqlite`, `postgresql`, `mongodb`) |
| `METRICS_ENABLED` | `false` | Enable Prometheus metrics |
| `LOGGING_ENABLED` | `false` | Enable audit logging |

**Quick Start — Authentication:** By default `GOMODEL_MASTER_KEY` is unset. Without this key, API endpoints are unprotected and anyone can call them. This is insecure for production. **Strongly recommend** setting a strong secret before exposing the service. Add `GOMODEL_MASTER_KEY` to your `.env` or environment for production deployments.

---

> ## Development

Reviewer: Let's move the whole section to docs/DEVELOPMENT.md. We don’t need it here because the README.md is not for contributors. It’s more like a project homepage, which will mostly be read by users - either running it via Docker or using prebuilt packages with binary/compiled builds.

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Anthropic</td>
    <td><code>ANTHROPIC_API_KEY</code></td>
    <td><code>claude&#8209;sonnet&#8209;4&#8209;20250514</code></td>
    <td>✅</td><td>🚧</td><td>🚧</td><td>🚧</td><td>🚧</td><td>🚧</td><td>🚧</td><td>🚧</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Google&nbsp;Gemini</td>
    <td><code>GEMINI_API_KEY</code></td>
    <td><code>gemini&#8209;2.5&#8209;flash</code></td>
    <td>✅</td><td>🚧</td><td>🚧</td><td>🚧</td><td>🚧</td><td>🚧</td><td>🚧</td><td>🚧</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Groq</td>
    <td><code>GROQ_API_KEY</code></td>
    <td><code>llama&#8209;3.3&#8209;70b&#8209;versatile</code></td>
    <td>✅</td><td>🚧</td><td>🚧</td><td>🚧</td><td>🚧</td><td>🚧</td><td>🚧</td><td>🚧</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>xAI&nbsp;(Grok)</td>
    <td><code>XAI_API_KEY</code></td>
    <td><code>grok&#8209;2</code></td>
    <td>✅</td><td>🚧</td><td>🚧</td><td>🚧</td><td>🚧</td><td>🚧</td><td>🚧</td><td>🚧</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Ollama</td>
    <td><code>OLLAMA_BASE_URL</code></td>
    <td><code>llama3.2</code></td>
    <td>✅</td><td>🚧</td><td>🚧</td><td>—</td><td>—</td><td>🚧</td><td>🚧</td><td>🚧</td>
  </tr>
</table>

✅ Supported  🚧 Coming soon  — Not applicable

---

> ## Alternative Setup Methods

Reviewer: In the future we can move this section to the development as well. From the person who want to try the project and use it for the first time it is not necessary.

We also need to have a "Quick Start" page on the docs website. It will be a little bit more detailed and different.
